======
Skills
======

I've been programming since I was just a young kid, playing `Wolfenstein 3D
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wolfenstein_3D>`_. Over the years, I've worked
with numerous technologies and learned various design patterns.

My greatest strength is my insane drive to learn new things and improve every
day. Along with this, I've internalized the `three virtues of a programmer
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Larry_Wall#Virtues_of_a_programmer>`_, and
constantly battle with myself to build software that satisfies my laziness,
impatience, and hubris >:)

######
Python
######

Python is by far my strongest programming language. I've worked with it
extensively for ~5 years, and am very familiar with the standard library, and
open source ecosystem.

I've used Python to build:

* Small command line utilities.
* Professional software for large telephony companies.
* Numerous websites and web services.
* Open source libraries and tools.

I'm active in the Python community, frequently attend Python events, and work
with other Python developers.

******
Django
******

I've been using `Django <https://www.djangoproject.com/>`_ (both professionally
and personally) for the past 2 years. I've used it to build web applications
for my company, as well as myself, and actively contribute to the Django
ecosystem.

What I love about Django is its flexibility, best-practices driven design, and
awesome documentation. I've personally adopted a lot of Django's development
traits, and the framework has inspired me to become a better developer.
Furthermore, the Django ecosystem is enormous, and it's really nice to use so
many great applications written by other programmers.

******
Flask
******

I started using `Flask <http://flask.pocoo.org/>`_ when it was first released
for small projects. To date, I've built 3 web applications with it (all for my
company) that power small internal websites.

What I like about Flask is the simple project skeleton, and extremely in-depth
documentation.

******
Celery
******

In the past year I've come to love `celery <http://celeryproject.org/>`_, the
distributed task queue. I've used it in my workplace to help scale our
applications to support thousands of users and improve server response times,
and I've used it personally to build beautifully scalable asynchronous
applications.

I'm extremely familiar with the setup and usage of celery, and have used both
celery and celerybeat to build high-performance applications.

######
puppet
######

After discovering `puppet <http://www.puppetlabs.com/>`_ earlier this year, my
life completely changed. I now use puppet for everything--personally and
professionally.

I've used puppet to:

* Build and manage several large production, staging, and development
  environments.

* Manage complex software environments that support thousands of users.

* Automate sysadmin work and remove thousands of hours worth of manual labor
  creating, configuring, and managing servers.

* Automatically scale my work's cloud infrastructure to actively add and remove
  servers based on user demand.

#####
monit
#####

`monit <http://mmonit.com/monit/>`_ is an application monitoring and healing program
that I've used to build fault-tolerant software stacks at work, and for fun. I'm
familiar with the basic monit scripting language, and have written numerous
scripts to monitor applications, ensure they're running properly (via numerous
statistics such as load, memory usage, response time, etc.), and attempt to both
auto-correct issues and send notifications when problems arise.

#########
memcached
#########

In order to help scale large web applications, I've made extensive use of
`memcached <http://memcached.org/>`_ to improve application response time and
scale computationally expensive software.

I've setup and maintained memcached server clusters, and have experience working
with the python memcached libraries (specifically, with Django's caching
backend) to rapidly scale python web applications.

#########
Rackspace
#########

As the lead developer at a tech startup, I've personally helped build a
scalable cloud infrastructure using `Rackspace Cloud Servers
<http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/cloud_hosting_products/servers/>`_.

I'm familiar with their python APIs and CLI tools, and know how to easily
automate server provisioning.

########
Asterisk
########

Over the past 3 years I've worked intimately with the popular open source PBX
system, `Asterisk <http://www.asterisk.org/>`_.

In addition to designing, implementing, and maintaining complex telephony
systems for various companies, I've also made several performance patches, bug
fixes, and built helper libraries to make interacting with Asterisk easier for
developers.

######
Heroku
######

If I'm not currently held captive by terrorists who insist I deploy code to
their own servers, then I'll unquestionably be using `Heroku
<http://www.heroku.com/>`_ to host my web projets.

To date, I've migrated multiple large sites from other cloud providers (like
Rackspace) to Heroku, for the betterment of all society.

In all seriousness though: I love Heroku, and I'm an expert at running sites on
it. I'm familiar with their deployment model, best practices, and most of their
addons.
